# Format Specification Elections

As file formats, CSV, XLS or XLSX files are accepted, which are generated by "Wabsti elections and votes (VRSG)" or by the web application itself. If a table is to be created by hand, then the format of the web application (OneGov) is the easiest.

## Content

<!-- TOC updateonsave:false -->

- [Format Specification Elections](#format-specification-elections)
    - [Content](#content)
    - [Preface](#preface)
        - [Entities](#entities)
        - [Tacit Elections](#tacit-elections)
        - [Regional Elections](#regional-elections)
    - [Formats](#formats)
        - [Onegov](#onegov)
            - [Columns](#columns)
            - [List panachage results](#list-panachage-results)
            - [Candidate panachage results](#candidate-panachage-results)
            - [Temporary results](#temporary-results)
            - [Election compounds](#election-compounds)
            - [Template](#template)
        - [WabstiCExport Majorz](#wabsticexport-majorz)
        - [WabstiCExport Proporz](#wabsticexport-proporz)
        - [Party results](#party-results)
            - [Domain of influence](#domain-of-influence)
            - [Panachage results](#panachage-results)
            - [Template](#template)

<!-- /TOC -->



## Preface

### Entities

An entity is either a municipality (cantonal instances, communal instances without quarters) or a quarter (communal instances with quarters).

### Tacit Elections

Tacit elections can be uploaded by using the OneGov format with every vote set to `0`.

### Regional Elections

When uploading results of a regional election, only entities of one district are excepted to be present, if the corresponding option is set on the election.

## Formats

### Onegov

The format, which will be used by the web application for the export, consists of a single file per election. There is a row for each municipality and candidate.

#### Columns

The following columns will be evaluated and should exist:

Name|Description
---|---
`election_absolute_majority`|Absolute majority of the election, only if Majorz election.
`election_status`|Status of the election. `interim` (intermediate results), `final` (final results) or `unknown`.
`entity_id`|BFS number of the municipality. A value of `0` can be used for expats.
`entity_counted`|`True` if the result was counted.
`entity_eligible_voters`|Number of persons entitled to vote in municipality.
`entity_expats`|Number of expats in the unit. Optional.
`entity_received_ballots`|Number of submitted ballots in municipality.
`entity_blank_ballots`|Number empty ballots in municipality.
`entity_invalid_ballots`|Number invalid ballots in municipality.
`entity_blank_votes`|Number empty votes in municipality.
`entity_invalid_votes`|Number invalid votes in municipality. Zero if Proporz election.
`list_name`|Name of list of candidate. Only with Proporz elections.
`list_id`|ID of the list of the candidate. Only with Proporz elections. Can be numeric or alphanumeric.
`list_color`|The color of the list as a hexadecimal value, e.g. `#a6b784`.
`list_number_of_mandates`|Total number of mandates of the list. Only with Proporz elections.
`list_votes`|Number of list votes per municipality. Only with Proporz elections.
`list_connection`|ID of the list connection or superordinate list connection (in case list_connection_parent is present). Only with Proporz elections.
`list_connection_parent`|ID of the superordinate list connection. Only with Proporz elections. Must be empty if not subordinates lists are present.
`candidate_id`|ID of the candidate.
`candidate_family_name`|Surname of the candidate.
`candidate_first_name`|First name of the candidate.
`candidate_elected`|True, if the candidate was elected.
`candidate_party`|The name of the party.
`candidate_party_color`|The color of the party as a hexadecimal value, e.g. `#a6b784`.
`candidate_gender`|The gender of the candidate: `female`, `male` or `undetermined`. Optional.
`candidate_year_of_birth`|The year of the candidate. Optional.
`candidate_votes`|Number of candidate votes in municipality.

#### List panachage results

The results may contain list panachage results by adding one column per list:

Name|Description
---|---
`list_panachage_votes_from_list_{XX}` / `panachage_votes_from_list_{XX}`|The number of votes the list got from the list with `list_id = XX`. A `list_id` with the value `999` marks the votes from the blank list. Votes from the own list are ignored.

#### Candidate panachage results

The results may contain candidate panachage results by adding one column per list:

Name|Description
---|---
`candidate_panachage_votes_from_list_{XX}` |The number of votes the candidate got from the list with `list_id = XX`. A `list_id` with the value `999` marks the votes from the blank list.

#### Temporary results

Municipalities are deemed not to have been counted yet if one of the following two conditions apply:
- `counted = false`
- the municipality is not included in the results

If the status is
- `interim`, the whole election is considered not yet completed
- `final`, the whole election is considered completed
- `unknown`, the whole election is considered completed, if all (expected) municipalities are counted

#### Election compounds

The results of election compounds can be uploaded in a bundle by providing a single file with all the rows of the results of each election.

#### Template

- [election_onegov_majorz.csv](https://github.com/OneGov/onegov-cloud/blob/master/src/onegov/election_day/static/docs/api/templates/election_onegov_majorz.csv)
- [election_onegov_proporz.csv](https://github.com/OneGov/onegov-cloud/blob/master/src/onegov/election_day/static/docs/api/templates/election_onegov_proporz.csv)


### WabstiCExport Majorz

Version `>= 2.2` is supported, please refer to the documentation provided by the exporter program for more information about the columns of the different files.


### WabstiCExport Proporz

Version `>= 2.2` is supported, please refer to the documentation provided by the exporter program for more information about the columns of the different files.


### Party results

Each (proporz) election and each election compound may contain party results. These results are independent of the other results and typically contain the already aggregated results of the different lists of a party.

The following columns will be evaluated and should exist:

Name|Description
---|---
`domain`|The domain of influence to which the line applies. Optional.
`domain_segment`|The unit of the domain of influence to which the line applies. Optional.
`year`|The year of the election.
`total_votes`|The total votes of the election.
`name`|The name of the party in the default language. Optional*.
`name_{locale}`|Translated name of the party, e.g. `name_de_ch` for the German name. Optional. Make sure to provide the name of the party in the default language either with the `name` or `name_{default_locale}` column.
`id`|ID of the party (any number).
`color`|The color of the party as a hexadecimal value, e.g. `#a6b784`.
`mandates`|The number of mandates.
`votes`|The number of votes.
`voters_count`|Voters count. The cumulative number of votes per total number of mandates per election. For election compounds only.
`voters_count_percentage`|Voters count (percentage). The cumulative number of votes per total number of mandates per election (percentage). For election compounds only.

#### Domain of influence

`domain` and `domain_segment` allow to provide party results for a different domain of influence other than that of the election or the compound. `domain` corresponds to a subdomain of influence of the election or compound, e.g. for cantonal parliamentary elections `superregion`, `region`, `district` or `municipality` depending on the canton. `domain_segment` corresponds to a unit in this subdomain of influence, e.g. `Region 1`, `Bergün`, `Toggenburg` or `Zug`. Normally, both `domain` and `domain_segment` can be empty or omitted. Normally both `domain` and `segment_domain` can be left blank or omitted; in this case `domain` is implicitly set to the `domain` of the election or compound. Currently, only the `domain` of the election or compound is supported, as well as `domain='superregion` for compounds.

#### Panachage results

The results may contain panachage results by adding one column per party:

Name|Description
---|---
`panachage_votes_from_{XX}`|The number of votes the party got from the party with `id = XX`. An `id` with the value `999` marks the votes from the blank list.

Panachage results are only added if:
- `year` matches the year of the election
- `id (XX)` does not match the `id` of the row

#### Template

- [election_party_results.csv](https://github.com/OneGov/onegov-cloud/blob/master/src/onegov/election_day/static/docs/api/templates/election_party_results.csv)
